Though there was a lot in terms of workload this week, I found it quite exciting overall. I've come to realize over the years that I'm a visual (and even tactile) learner, so getting into this sort of work was quite compelling for me. When going through the projects in the readings, as I mentioned in my notes the efficiency is what stood out to me the most. It's not an essay or a book, but what you're looking at is still history, and I wouldn't say it's watered down history either. It seems like the idea in mind is to make the key arguments understandable in a relatively simple, and easy to digest way. I think that's what I take away from visualizations, at least.

There's something to be said about style, too. History has a reputation for being boring (and yet it's the most interesting thing there is!) because people associate it with text on a page. These sorts of projects are creative, varied, engaging, FUN, and even inspiring in some regards. I guess it reminds me of museums, in a way. Your 'average Joe' says history is boring, and yet museums are packed with people all over the world. Visually appealing and stimulating history works, I think, so this week really speaks to me in that regard.

Creating stimulating work is another matter entirely, though. I'm not much of a music person, so even though the sonification work isn't limited to 'music' I think I had a hard time distancing the concept from what music is 'supposed to be.' A lot of it, even my own creations, just sounded like... stuff. I eventually got something that I think told a bit of a story, but it was difficult to use the data to convey something. Looking back on my notes, I found myself even referring to my sonification in terms of the information I could see on the screen, rather than the sound itself. Still, I think I ended up with something that works.

The maps are where I found my footing. I've talked about it numerous times now, but cartography is a hobby of mine, so this was quite an engaging part of the work. I actually repurposed something else I made in the past about the Batavia for the StoryMap I made. I'd shown it to other people before, and it seemed to work well. I think maps in particular can make things real for people. The large world map hanging in a classroom is an image a lot of us can relate to, and I think being able to associate history with places drives points home. I like maps for the topic I chose because of the underlying messages you can read on the map. Just from looking at it you can see the gruelling nature of sea travel and the hopelessness of being lost, even so close to safety.

The most time consuming part of this was the poster. I do a lot of drawing and image editing in my free time, but I've never used Inskscape I think I've got other programs so heavily ingrained in me that it was difficult to learn something new. My biggest thought here, though, is that--having done all of the work--I'm now wondering if I interpreted the instructions incorrectly. I think I have. Still, I suppose the fact that I ended up creating my own format from scratch (with influence from the examples) answers something about the designs provided.

In a way I DID repurpose the posters to fit my needs. I kept the style of infoboxes fixed around a central image, but I reworked it to harken back to old boxing posters. I was actually really pleased with the end result, and having shown it to some friends and family they all liked it as well. The main feedback I got was the wasted space between the legs, but my attempts to resolve this were much, much worse than a bit of empty space. A few people praised the 'titles' of each infobox. Part of what I wanted to portray was that Johnson had to fight in every walk of life, not just in the ring. People seemed to like the concept of framing his experiences with racism as 'fights' as well.

I hadn't though much about the final question on the syllabus of 'impacting our own historian's craft,' but now going through this journal (sorry for the length!) I'm finding myself drawn to the analogy of the museum. I think about my own future in academia, and how even though history is my greatest passion, so much of it deters me. The 'ivory tower' nature of some academics, the utterly antiquated manner of writing, the idea that 'real history' is STILL just Edward Gibbons' books from three hundred years ago. I think this has reinforced in my mind that there's a 'new history' developing thanks to technology. The stimulating museum displays and exhibits can live on your phone or your laptop. Your syllabus can be an app, your textbook can be a podcast, your final assignment can be a map. I think it's been really encouraging to see the possibilities available to modern (and future) historians, if only they're willing to embrace the changes and delve into something foreign.
